Catalog item registration (#3656)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Cloud_Platform/Catalog/Tutorials/Tutorial_Register_Catalog_Item.md

---
uid: Tutorial_Register_Catalog_Item
---

# Registering a new connector in the Catalog

This tutorial demonstrates how to add a new catalog item using the [Catalog API](xref:Register_Catalog_Item).  
We will be registering our own version of the following example [connector](https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom).  

> For ease of use we will be using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to execute the register API calls. Feel free to integrate them afterwards in your workflow, e.g by using them in a github action.

Author: will look for a pipeline example

> For ease of use we will be using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to execute the register API calls. Feel free to integrate them afterwards in your workflow, e.g by using them in a github action.

Author: added a github workflow example

> For ease of use we will be using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to execute the register API calls. Feel free to integrate them afterwards in your workflow, e.g by using them in a github action.

Reviewer: looks good :D

## Prerequisites

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Author: ok, added link

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Reviewer: Prerequisites section appears to be gone on this page I think? Other two tutorials still have it

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Author: yes , cause  there are no pre requisites for registering an item. what should be pre requisite?

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Reviewer: A key/owner role I suppose, see discussion elsewhere about the choice we make

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Author: ok added something back in all tutorials

## Overview

- [Step 1: Register catalog item URL](#step-1-register-catalog-item-url)
- [Step 2: Authentication header](#step-2-authentication-header)
- [Step 3: Register catalog item body](#step-3-register-catalog-item-body)
- [Step 4: Register](#step-4-register)

## Step 1: Register catalog item URL

Add a new request with http method **PUT** and following url <https://api.dataminer.services/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register>

![Register item http url](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_url.png)

## Step 2: Authentication header

> The catalog item register api call uses Organization key authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 

Reviewer: Still see it like this:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/06572e8a-96ab-4d89-844e-c55bd2d0dcf7)

> The catalog item register api call uses Organization key authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 

Author: changed but used `Keys` iso bold

> The catalog item register api call uses Organization key authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 

Reviewer: ok

> This key identifies your organization and will make sure the registration will register your catalog item under the organization of the key you use.

Author: ok

> This key identifies your organization and will make sure the registration will register your catalog item under the organization of the key you use.

Reviewer: ok

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Author: removed it from prerequisite

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Reviewer: Don't see any prerequisites at all anymore like mentioned earlier :p

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Author: wym? there are indeed no longer pre resquisites. organizaiton key is removed from pre requisite as suggested. What would you want to see as pre requisite?

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Reviewer: Ah ok, I misread my own comment :D
However, maybe the prerequisite should list that you either need the permissions to make one, or a key from someone who does?
Although tbh you'd get stuck quite early on, so it's not as if they will start a tutorial and waste 30minutes before realizing.

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Author: i added again a pre requisite everywhere. i'll resolve it here since its same comment as elsewhere

Go ahead and create a new key with permission "Register catalog items".

![Organization Key](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_create_org_key.png)

> After creation of the key, you can copy the key and use it as value in the **Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key** header  

Reviewer: ok

  > [!NOTE]
  > Make sure to obtain a new GUID to uniquely store and identify the Catalog item. Navigate to [GUID generator](https://guidgenerator.com/) and create a new one using the format *hyphens* or use your own preferred method.

  ```yml
  type: 'connector'

  id: '1742495c-9231-4eeb-a56e-1fec8189246e'

  title: 'My Catalog Registration Example'

  short_description: 'Example connector showing how to calculate bitrates and other rates on any changing numeric data.'

  source_code_url: 'https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom'

  owners:
    - name: 'john doe'
      email: 'john.doe@skyline.be'
  tags:
    - 'example'
  ```

Create a zip file containing the manifest and the readme and add it to the body of the request as shown below

![zip content structure](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_zip_structure.png)

![Register item http body](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_body.png)

## Step 4: Register

Execute the call and upon correct registration you will receive HTTP Status 200 OK and the catalog id in the body of the response.

> You can now search for you catalog item in the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services/browse) or navigate immediately to https://catalog.dataminer.services/details/{YourCatalogId}

Author: ok

> You can now search for you catalog item in the [Catalog](https://catalog.dataminer.services/browse) or navigate immediately to https://catalog.dataminer.services/details/{YourCatalogId}

Reviewer: ok

For ease of use, [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) will be used to execute the register API calls. You can also integrate these into your own workflow afterwards, e.g by using them in a GitHub action.

## Prerequisites

- An [organization key](xref:Managing_DCP_keys#organization-keys) or account with the *Owner* role in order to access/create organization keys.

  > [!TIP]
  > See [Changing the role of a dataminer.services user](xref:Changing_the_role_of_a_DCP_user)

## Overview

- [Step 1: Register the Catalog item URL](#step-1-register-the-catalog-item-url)
- [Step 2: Configure the authentication header](#step-2-configure-the-authentication-header)
- [Step 3: Register the Catalog item body](#step-3-register-the-catalog-item-body)
- [Step 4: Register the Catalog item](#step-4-register-the-catalog-item)

## Step 1: Register the Catalog item URL

Add a new request using an HTTP method of type **PUT** and the following URL: `https://api.dataminer.services/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register`

> ![Register item HTTP URL](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_url.png)

Reviewer 2: The text in this screenshot is so small that it's barely readable. Could you replace this with a better screenshot?

Author: updated images, also for version tutorial

   - A *manifest.yml* file describing the properties of the Catalog item.

     Copy the snippet below, changing the fields as you see fit using your favorite editor, and save the file as `manifest.yaml`.

     > [!NOTE]
     > Make sure to obtain a new GUID to uniquely store and identify the Catalog item. To do so, you can for instance navigate to [GUID generator](https://guidgenerator.com/) and create a new GUID using the format *hyphens*, or you can use your own preferred method. 

     ```yml
     type: 'connector'

     id: '1742495c-9231-4eeb-a56e-1fec8189246e'

     title: 'My Catalog Registration Example'

     short_description: 'Example connector showing how to calculate bitrates and other rates on any changing numeric data.'

     source_code_url: 'https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom'

     owners:
       - name: 'john doe'
         email: 'john.doe@skyline.be'
     tags:
       - 'example'
     ```

1. Add the zip file as the value of the body of the request as shown below.

   The body of the request needs to be in the **multipart/form-data** format with a key of type **File** with the name **file**.

>    ![Register item http body](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_body.png)

Reviewer 2: Could you also make a new version of this screenshot from a smaller window (ideally about the width of the main text area on Docs), so it's easier for users to see the text?

Author: updated images, also for version tutorial

- [Step 4: Register](#step-4-register)

## Step 1: Register catalog item URL

Add a new request with http method **PUT** and following url <https://api.dataminer.services/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register>

![Register item http url](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_url.png)

## Step 2: Authentication header

The catalog item register api call uses Organization key authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 
This key identifies your organization and will make sure the registration will register your catalog item under the organization of the key you use.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys.

Go ahead and create a new key with permission "Register catalog items".

![Organization Key](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_create_org_key.png)

After creation of the key, you can copy the key and use it as value in the **Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key** header  

![Register item http header](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_urlandheaders.png)

## Step 3: Register catalog item body

> The body of the request expects form-data with key of type *File* and name *file*, the value is a zip containing the following items:

Author: ok, adapted

  short_description: 'Example connector showing how to calculate bitrates and other rates on any changing numeric data.'

  # [Optional]
  # A valid URL that points to the source code.
  #   A valid URL
  #   Max length: 2048 characters
  source_code_url: 'https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom'

  # [Optional]
  # A valid URL that points to documentation.
  #   A valid URL
  #   Max length: 2048 characters
  # Currently not shown in the Catalog UI but will be supported in the near future.
  # documentation_url: ''

  # [Optional]
  # People that are responsible for this catalog item. Might be developers but is not required.
  # Format: 'name <email> (url)'
  #   The name is required, max 256 characters.
  #   The email and url are optional, and should be in valid email/URL formats.
  owners:
    - name: 'john doe'
      email: 'john.doe@skyline.be'

  # [Optional]
  # Tags that allow you to categorize your catalog items.
  #   Max length: 50 characters.
  #   Can not contain newlines.
  #   Can not contain leading or trailing whitespace characters.
  tags:
    - 'example'
  ```

> Create a zip file containing the manifest and the readme and add it to the body of the request as shown below

Author: included an image

---
uid: Tutorial_Register_Catalog_Item
---

# Registering a new catalog item

This tutorial demonstrates how to add a new catalog item using the [Catalog API](xref:Catalog_Registration).  
We will be registering our own version of the following example [connector](https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom).  

> For ease of use we will be using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to execute the register API calls. Feel free to integrate them afterwards in your workflow, e.g by using them in a github action.

Reviewer 3: We could link to Bruno, this seems to be an open source competitor
Can be installed an ran without an account, even has a portable option

We can then also provide a collection that they can import directly.
Here we can prefill everything and/or put placeholders (e.g. their key)

https://www.usebruno.com/

Author: will try it out

Author: looked into bruno and my first impression is that postman looks more professional atm and is well known , we can export the queries of it as well. I don't see an advantage of bruno over postman.  Not convinced if we should share it though, its something extra to maintain and tutorial will change to replace field x to xxx iso logical steps. They dont have to do much as is. The tutorial can be done using postman but is not required, they got all steps to do it with anything else.

Reviewer 3: Ok, can keep the link to Postman, it's indeed a lot more known than Bruno atm.

Biggest benefit I saw was that everything is saved locally and it doesn't require an account

## Prerequisites

> - Organization key with permission "Register catalog items".

Reviewer 3: Think this prerequisite can be removed since we describe how to get one in step 2

Author: i would keep it in because it might take some time for a normal user to obtain a key , its clear up front then he will need a key and doesnt find out about it while started already

Reviewer 3: true, then it can be left as is from my end

![Register item http url](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catatalog_registration_item_url.png)

## Step2: Authentication header
The catalog item register api call uses Organization key authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 
This key identifies your organization and will make sure the registration will register your catalog item under the organization of the key you use.

> [!Important]  
You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create Organization keys. 

Go ahead and create a new key with permission "Register catalog items".

![Organization Key](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catatalog_registration_create_org_key.png)

After creation of the key, you can copy the key and use it as value in the **Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key** header  

![Register item http header](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_catalog_urlandheader.png)

## Step3: Register catalog item body

The body of the request expects form-data with key of type *File* and name *file*, the value is a zip containing

> * a readme.md file with any required image in an images folder which will be shown in the description tab in the Catalog.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* a readme.md file all required images in the images folder which will be shown in the description tab in the Catalog.  
```

Author: changed it to"a readme.md file with all required images in an images folder"

Copy the below snippet and change the content as you see fit using your favorite editor.

```md
---
uid: Connector_Example_Rates_Custom

> ---

Reviewer 3: uid is something we typically don't use in catalog itself.
This is only used (to my knowledge) on the docs site.

In the catalog app we even remove these lines when formatting

#   - slamodel: If the catalog item is a DataMiner XML connector designed as DataMiner Service Level Agreement model.
#   - enhancedservicemodel: If the catalog item is a DataMiner XML connector designed as DataMiner enhanced service model.
#   - visio: If the catalog item is a Microsoft Visio design.
#   - solution: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Solution.
#   - testingsolution: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Solution designed for automated testing and validation.
#   - samplesolution: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Solution used for training and education.
#   - standardsolution: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Solution which is a out-of-the-box solution for specific use case or application.
#   - dashboard: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Dashboard.
#   - lowcodeapp: If the catalog item is a DataMiner low-code app.
#   - datatransformer: If the catalog item is a Data Transformer.
#   - dataquery: If the catalog item is a GQI data query.
#   - functiondefinition: If the catalog item is a DataMiner function definition.
#   - scriptedconnector: If the catalog item is a DataMiner scripted connector.

> #   - bestpracticesanalyzer: If the catalog item is a DataMiner Best practices Analysis file.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to keep all the possible types + explanation here?
If something changes we'll need to remember to update it here as well

Author: its good to have a template they can just copy to get started, i dont expect it to change that often that it will give issues. we might think if this can be shared in another way though, maybe through git. we have an explanation in another location about the types, but the syntax/formatting of the yaml is not defined there.

# If the id is filled in but does not exist yet, a new catalog item will be registered with this id.
# If the id is filled in but does exist, properties of the item will be overwritten
#   Must be a valid GUID.
id: '1742495c-9231-4eeb-a56e-1fec8189246e'

# [Required] 
# The human-friendly name of the catalog item. 
# Can be changed at any time.
#   Max length: 100 characters.
#   Can not contain newlines.
#   Can not contain leading or trailing whitespace characters.
title: 'My Catalog Registration Example'

# [Optional]
# General information about the catalog item.
#   Max length: 100.000 characters
# Currently not shown in the Catalog UI but will be supported in the near future.
short_description: 'Example connector showing how to calculate bitrates and other rates on any changing numeric data.'

# [Optional]
# A valid URL that points to the source code.
#   A valid URL
#   Max length: 2048 characters
source_code_url: 'https://github.com/SkylineCommunications/SLC-C-Example_Rates-Custom'

# [Optional]
# A valid URL that points to documentation.
#   A valid URL
#   Max length: 2048 characters
# Currently not shown in the Catalog UI but will be supported in the near future.

> # documentation_url: ''

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
documentation_url: ''
```

Author: i disabled it cause we dont use it and i cant think of a good url to use that makes sense. i didnt just want to put a random url

# [Optional]
# People that are responsible for this catalog item. Might be developers but is not required.
# Format: 'name <email> (url)'
#   The name is required, max 256 characters.
#   The email and url are optional, and should be in valid email/URL formats.
owners:
  - name: 'john doe'
    email: 'john.doe@skyline.be'

# [Optional]
# Tags that allow you to categorize your catalog items.
#   Max length: 50 characters.
#   Can not contain newlines.
#   Can not contain leading or trailing whitespace characters.
tags:
  - 'example'
```

> create a zip file containing the manifest and the readme and add it to the body of the request as shown below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a zip file containing the manifest and the readme and add it to the body of the request as shown below
```

For ease of use we will be using [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) to execute the register API calls. Feel free to integrate them afterwards in your workflow, e.g by using them in a GitHub action.

## Overview

- [Step 1: Register Catalog item URL](#step-1-register-catalog-item-url)
- [Step 2: Authentication header](#step-2-authentication-header)
- [Step 3: Register Catalog item body](#step-3-register-catalog-item-body)
- [Step 4: Register](#step-4-register)

## Step 1: Register Catalog item URL

Add a new request with HTTP method of type **PUT** and the following URL: <https://api.dataminer.services/api/key-catalog/v1-0/catalog/register>

![Register item http url](~/user-guide/images/tutorial_catalog_registration_item_url.png)

## Step 2: Authentication header

The Catalog item register api call uses [organization key](xref:Managing_DCP_keys#organization-keys) authentication, we can obtain one in the [Admin App](https://admin.dataminer.services/) on the Keys page. 
This key identifies your organization and will make sure the registration will register your Catalog item under the correct organization.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > You need to have the "Owner" role in order to access/create organization keys.

Author: ok
